Sorry. man. I know this hurts.
Michael told me you pulled
the bullet out with your bare hands.
You'll have to show me
how to do that sometime.
Where is she?
- What? I didn't...
- Where is she?
You mean Kate? She's been watching
over you for the past 24 hours straight.
Only way I could get rid of her
was to send her to get food for you.
I love her.
Hey. girl. What are you doing here?
- Hey. there.
- All right. Let's get you to bed.
Watch your step.
What the hell is that smell?
- Probably your breath.
- Yeah. right.
- Come on.
- Wow.
You're beautiful.
Hey.
Hey. I just gave you a compliment.
Yeah. I heard you.
Aren't you gonna
take my pants off first?
You are beautiful.
Good night.
Coffee? Pie? Both?
- How about a beer?
- I'd like to see some ID.
I'm 24. Ma.
You wanna ride on that death trap
of yours without a helmet.
I'm not gonna help your cause
by getting you drunk.
- How's that wrist?
- What? This?
You know that shelf in the kitchen
sticks out sometimes.
- You'd think I'd remember it was there.
- Don't.
I made my bed. Katherine.
Well. your bed's gone. Ma.
What?
What is this?
- An insurance policy for the house.
- I never...
I took it out in your name.
What did you do?
Does Wayne know about this?
Just remember you were here
and you didn't see me.
Katherine! What did you do?
I took care of you. Ma.
I gotta go.
You're not gonna see me for a while.
Katherine. What did you do?
Katherine!
- Hey.
You OK?
Yeah. yeah. I think I'm just...
I think I'm tired.
- How is he?
- Fever's still up there.
Can't tell if the antibiotics
are working.
It'll help to get some food in him.
You should get down to the beach
for Shannon.
I was actually thinking
that I should stay and watch Sawyer.
I'll stay with him.
You should be there.
Keep him hydrated. Maybe mash up some
fruit and see if you can get him to eat.
Everybody will be at the beach.
so don't forget the button.
I've got it.
- I'll be back in a couple hours.
- Yep.
You're sure you're OK?
Yeah. I'm great.
Hey.
I'm going to go to the funeral.
I don't think I'm gonna make it.
I think most of them realise
it was an accident. Ana.
Shannon and I were strangers.
We never would have met if...
We wouldn't even have spoken if...
But we did meet.
And we did speak.
At least.
I loved her.
May she rest in peace.
You hungry?
I'm just gonna mash you up
some fruit here.
When you wake up. you're gonna get a
kick out of me feeding you like a baby.
I saw a horse.
Yeah.
That's what happens
when you don't sleep.
Sawyer? You awake?
You killed me.
Why did you kill me?
It's the alarm.
Kate!
Sawyer!
4. 8...
15. 16. 2...
42.
- What happened?
- I don't know.
- Well. you said...
- I don't know. John!
Well. where's Kate?
Kate. Hey.
- You missed the funeral.
- Yeah. I was with Sawyer.
Oh. right.
A few of "them" came. The new people.
Not her. the one who killed Shannon.
That would've been a bit awkward.
They seem to have had
a rough time of it.
Looks like they went bloody
Lord of the Flies out there.
You haven't listened to a word
I've said.
- Do you think there are horses here?
- What?
I think I saw a horse in the jungle.
I've seen polar bears.
I've seen monsters.
Well. heard monsters.
But horses? No.
Kate. where are you going?
Tallahassee. one way. please.
Tallahassee? I spent a week
in Tallahassee one night.
It's all strip malls and waffle houses.
What's a pretty girl like you
gonna do down in Tallahassee?
- I'm sure I'll find something.
- Bet you've got family down there.
Actually. I'm just visiting.
Hey.
Don't I know you?
No. I don't think so.
Don't run. Kate.
I got her.
Kate Austen.
you're under arrest for murder.
- I didn't do anything.
- Yeah. you did.
Your mama gave you up. Kate.
Charlie. Have you seen Kate?
A little while ago in the jungle.
She was acting kind of barmy.
asking me about horses.
You know where she is now?
She's on the path
heading back to the caves.
- Everything OK?
- Yeah. Charlie. Everything's fine.
- Thank you.
- Free at last. huh?
Yeah. man. Looks good.
Hey. Locke.
what's up with the blast doors?
Blast doors?
Yeah. Like. in case of an explosion.
they come from the ceiling.
- That guy down here...
- Desmond?
- He didn't tell you what they were for?
- No. No. he didn't.
But he did leave a movie.
- A movie?
- Yeah.
You wanna see it?
I would like to see it. too.
If you don't mind.
Why not? The more. the merrier.
Kate.
what the hell are you doing out here?
What happened in the hatch. Kate?
Why did you leave?
I find Sawyer on the ground.
You just took off...
- Is he OK?
- Yes. Kate. he's fine.
- I'm sorry.
- Are you?
Yeah. I'm sorry.
I'm sorry that I am not
as perfect as you.
I'm sorry that I'm not as good!
- What's going on with you?
- Just forget it.
- Don't walk away from me.
- Let go of me.
- No. Kate.
- Don't!
It's OK. It's OK.
Hey.
Jack. This place is crazy. It's just...
I can't... It's driving me nuts.
I know. It's OK.
It's all right. It's all right.
All right?
Kate!
From the moment the alarm sounds.
you will have four minutes to enter the
code into the microcomputer processor...
... induction into the program.
When the alarm sounds. either you
or your partner must input the code.
It is highly recommended that you and
your partner take alternating shifts.
In this manner.
you will both stay as fresh and alert...
... utmost importance
that when the alarm sounds.
the code be entered correctly
and in a timely fashion.
Do not attempt to use
the computer for anything...
Congratulations.
Until your replacements arrive. the
future of the project is in your hands.
On behalf of the DeGroots. Alvar Hanso.
and all of us at the Dharma Initiative.
thank you. namaste.
and good luck.
All right.
So. you've been pushing that button
every two hours since you got down here?
That's right.
How's that even work?
I've set up two-person shifts.
Six hours. Everyone's on the roster.
Don't they wanna know why?
I think the film's
pretty self-explanatory.
Really? All I heard was something
about electromagnets and an "incident".
What about all the missing pieces?
You mean the splices?
Just a frame here and there. I think.
Nothing important.
What do you think?
About the film? What do you think?
I'm sorry I missed it. Her funeral.
I had to be with Sawyer. so...
Why aren't you with him now?
Because I'm going crazy.
Do you believe in ghosts. Sayid?
I saw Walt in the jungle.
just before Shannon was shot.
Does that make me crazy?
It's a long drive back
to the arraignment. You comfy?
Why now?
- What?
- Nice. corn-fed farm girl like you.
No history of violence. Straight A's.
No record. couple of speeding tickets.
I just gotta wonder.
why did you kill him now?
Right. yeah. don't tell me. You wouldn't
wanna incriminate yourself.
Not after you were so smart planning it.
That jury back in lowa sure ain't
gonna get hung up on premeditation.
And a gas leak?
Come on. That's amateur hour
from top to bottom.
Sounds like
you've got it all figured out.
- I have you all figured out.
- You don't know anything about me.
White-trash mom divorces dad. starts up
with some guy who's a drinker.
Maybe he knocks her around a little bit.
so she marries him.
because. you know. that's what happens.
Then this drunk. this Wayne.
he moves into your house.
And you get to lay there every night
and listen to him doing your mom
right there in your daddy's old bedroom.
And even that wouldn't be so bad
if he didn't beat her up all the time.
But she loves him.
She defends him.
If that don't make a person want to kill
somebody. I don't know what does.
But the question is: now. why now?
Why after all these years did you
just decide to blow poor Wayne up?
He come knocking on your door
late at night?
He never touched me.
Look out!
Why can't you
just put the numbers in now?
No. Doesn't work that way.
The alarm goes off at four minutes.
You can't type anything until then.
You mind if I check out
some of this hardware?
Sure.
Just don't break it.
- Hello. again.
- Hello.
I have something I think you should see.
If you don't mind.
I will begin at the beginning.
Long before Christ. the King of Judah
was a man named Josiah.
Boy. when you say "beginning".
you mean "beginning".
At that time. the temple where
the people worshipped was in ruin.
And so the people worshipped idols.
False gods.
And so. the kingdom was in disarray.
Josiah. since he was a good king.
sent his secretary to the treasury
and said "We must rebuild the temple".
"Give all of the gold to the workers
so that this will be done."
But when the secretary returned.
he had no gold.
And when Josiah asked why this was.
the secretary replied...
"We found a book".
- Do you know this story?
- No. Afraid I don't.
What the secretary had found
was an ancient book.
The Book of Law.
You may know it as the Old Testament.
And it was with that ancient book.
not with the gold.
that Josiah rebuilt the temple.
On the other side of the island...
we found a place much like this.
And in this place we found a book.
I believe what's inside there
will be of great value to you.
Hey.
So. Rose's husband's white.
- Didn't see that one coming.
- Is there something you need. Hurley?
Nope. Just taking a walk.
Thought I'd say hey.
Who's taking care of Sawyer?
Sun is.
So you're. like. mad at him?
Why would I be mad at Sawyer?
Maybe because he's the one
who always comes down here
and chops wood and now you are.
It's. like. transference.
Are you a shrink now?
That's what they called it
in the mental hospital.
I'm not mad at anyone.
Where's Jack?
I don't know. He didn't come back.
Has he said anything?
Sawyer?
No. He's still sleeping.
Can you watch him?
- I can stay if you...
- No. yeah. I can.
Thanks.
Right.
Yes.
I'm sure that's the exact form you got.
I'll send one over to you. right.
I'll call you back later.
Hi. Dad.
The police and the US Marshals
are looking for you.
- You shouldn't have come.
- I was outside for two hours.
They're not here.
Is it true? What they're saying?
Katie. what did you come here for?
Why didn't you tell me. Dad?
Tell you what?
I was making a scrapbook.
A surprise for your birthday.
So I called one of your COs
to get some pictures of you in uniform.
The pictures he sent me
had dates on the back.
Photos of you in Korea. up until
four months before I was born.
Why didn't you tell me
that Wayne was my father?
Why?
I didn't tell you
because I knew you'd kill him.
And your mother loved him.
You were five years old.
I wanted to take you along with me
but she wouldn't let me.
So why didn't you kill him?
Because I don't have murder in my heart.
I'm gonna have to call them.
Can I have an hour?
Bye. Daddy.
Can you hear me?
Sawyer?
Wayne?
I'm probably crazy...
and this doesn't matter...
but maybe you're in there. somehow.
And you asked me a question.
You asked me why I...
Why I did it.
It wasn't because
you drove my father away.
Or the way you looked at me.
Or because you beat her.
It was because I hated
that you were part of me.
That I would never be good.
That I would never have anything good.
And every time that I look at Sawyer.
every time I feel something for him.
I see you. Wayne.
And it makes me sick.
That's about the sweetest thing
I ever heard.
Sawyer?
Who the hell is Wayne?
Am I in a bunk bed?
Yeah. you're in a bunk bed.
Are we saved?
No. Sawyer.
Not yet.
Voila.
What are the odds?
- The odds?
- Yeah.
Here. hold this down on the table there.
nice and flat.
I mean. think about it.
Somebody made this film.
Someone else cut this piece out.
We crash. two halves of the same plane
fall on different parts of the island.
You're over there. I'm over here.
And now here's the missing piece.
right back where it belongs.
What are the odds?
Don't mistake coincidence for fate.
You've gotta be kidding me.
Airlock's over this way.
Come on. admit it. We've been rescued.
You got it? Sorry.
Watch yourself.
Son of a bitch.
Watch yourself. OK?
- I got it.
- OK.
Home. sweet home.
Yeah.
I really thought
you were yanking my chain.
What do you keep smiling at?
You need a haircut.
Oh. really?
Maybe you ought to take me back inside.
You see that?
You mean the big-ass horse standing
in the middle of the jungle? Then. yeah.
You know that horse. freckles?
Yeah. I do.
Tequila and tonic.
That's your drink. right?
- Where's the tonic?
- We're running a little low on mixers.
Sure you wanna waste that on me?
I figured you could use a drink.
I know I could.
You gonna try to convince me that
everyone here doesn't hate me?
Only if you're gonna try to convince me
every woman in the world's not crazy.
When the alarm sounds. either you
or your partner must input the code.
It is highly recommended that you and
your partner take alternating shifts.
In this manner.
you will both stay as fresh and alert...
... utmost importance
that when the alarm sounds.
the code be entered correctly
and in a timely fashion.
Here it comes.
Do not attempt to use the computer
for anything else
other than the entering of the code.
This is its only function.
The isolation that attends the duties
associated with Station Three
may tempt you
to try and utilise the computer
for communication with the outside
world. This is strictly forbidden.
Attempting to use
the computer in this manner
will compromise
the integrity of the project and...
worse. could lead to another incident.
I repeat: do not use the computer for
anything other than entering the code.
Congratulations.
Until your replacements arrive. the
future of the project is in your hands.